---
layout: post
title: Application Materials
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
---

## Please list in ranking order the top three functional areas of financial services that you are interested in pursuing post-graduation and provide an explanation why

### Fintech
I learned about this field since I was at Los Angeles. Traditional, fund management and insurance were done semi manually. However, by leveraging computer science and statistical technics, stakeholders are enabled to make quantitative decision. The power of big data should also be incorporated to financial industry. By distributed computing framework, like Spark, and data storing system, like Hive, Facebook is able to deal with hundreds of TB data daily. And I am a good fit since I am familiar with those systems and have a finance foundation.

Additionally, I worked with both business users and engineers closely everyday. This experience enables me to both discuss business stories with clients and execute engineering projects with developers.


### Portfolio Management

In my opinion, portfolio management is the art of data and math. Collecting data to understand the world and set up mathematical models to optimize the goal. Varied from efficient frontier, I am interested to push the boundaries of α and β forward by modern technics. For example, I have done dynamic portfolio management combined with natural language processing at GoldSpot. Being accessible to massive amount of data, I would be able to sharpen the current model used at CIBC by technics I acquired.

### quantitative Research

From Markowitz to Fama-French, financial modeling changed rapidly. Nowadays, companies like two-sigma and Citadel have already used cutting edge machine learning techniques to beat the market. As a Ph.D. who worked extensively with machine learning and deep learning technics daily, I am able to conduct cutting edge research to benefit our client. On the other hand, I am excited to lead an engineering team to build systems from scratch. Different from tech companies whose goal are increasing uncontrollable KPIs, my product would generate positive cash quickly.


## Please highlight some key examples of your academic and leadership success to date and how these success will contribute to your future professional success  

My greatest success was that I earned my Ph.D degree in Computational chemistry. I started as an organic chemist with weak math and computer science knowledge. After five years of productive scientific research, I obtained my doctoral degree in theoretical chemistry from the University of Pittsburgh under the guidance of Professor Kenneth D. Jordan in 2016. Part of my
research is about the computational understanding of the proton disordered ice Ih and clathrate hydrates. By mathematical modeling and numerically solving Schrodinger's equation with supercomputers, I was able to understand the physical features and to probe the underlying mechanisms for clathrate hydrates formation.

Another project that I did was to optimize parameters of energy functions describing London Force using
density functional theory. By implementing the heuristic genetic algorithm and the Markov Chain Monte
Carlo (MCMC) sampling, I made my algorithm converged faster than the traditional gradient descent
optimization algorithms.

One of my main projects as a data scientist was to help Thrive Market to develop recommendation system. I was leading a team of backend engineers, frontend developers and designers to implement this service from ground up. I derived the mathematical part for our recommender system by Singular Value Decomposition and Kernel Method. After that, I led the team to work together to deploy the system. Our system increased customer retention by 42% before I left.

And I believe both my relentlessness and leadership would be a great adds-on to CIBC. I am able to pick up new skills quickly and apply these knowledge to generate impactful products. I was trained to read and compose academic papers, which would help me to guide other analysts and developers. And I successfully led a team to develop a complicated system in a very limited timeline, which enabled me to work collaboratively under high pressure.  



## At CIBC, community involvement and giving back is a key element of the corporate culture. What does community involvement and giving back to the community mean to you? Please highlight your community involvement to date, and how you plan on giving back to the community through your professional endeavors.

When I was in the Ph.D. program, I organized science weekends every year, and invited high school students to conduct lab activities in the chemistry department. Even now in the United States, high schools’ resources are not equally distributed. Minorities and female students have way less opportunities to be exposed to high-quality science education. I organized the events with several other female graduate students, and taught chemical knowledge to black, hispanic and native American girls. Organizing activities and lead a team to work effectively were the top skills I picked up.  

During the days in Los Angeles, I participated in various Women in Data Science (WiDS) meet-ups and organized dozens of talks in the LA Data Science Community and at UCLA. I believe that successful professionals are not those who only perform their own job perfectly, but those who also help the whole community level up. As a woman data scientist, I vividly feel the desire and anxiety of other women being under-represented to learn AI technologies. Besides sharing my own career path, I hosted various hands-on
sessions to boost their knowledge about applications of AI in various industries. Along the path of becoming a successful data scientist, I myself have been helped by dozens of people, who provided me career advice, job referrals and helped me prepare for interviews. It is both virtue and obligation to grow the female data science community. And in financial industry, I would help people to find out their strength and succeed.

Now in Toronto, I am a volunteer at the HIV; AIDS Legal Clinic Ontario, which aims to help people living with HIV/AIDS live a quality life. I helped this vulnerable group face life's challenges. Almost always, this group is discriminated by the whole society because of the fearful virus. It is, however, unfair to them, since they are victims of the HIV monster. As a volunteer, my goal is to patiently listen to their personal stories, give out effective advice and comfort them. Under most scenarios, HIV patients can actually live for more than another 10 years. The challenge is how to live a happy life, just as what everyone else is doing. I joined the community activities on a bi-weekly or monthly basis to help, and become friends with them. Be sympathetic to these community helped me became a reliable business leader.



## As a female in the financial services industry, how do you plan to make an impact?

Based on Forbes news 2018, 80,000 doctoral degrees awarded last year, women earned 41,717 (53% of the total). However, only 37.6% women are in senior management positions in large banks in Canada. And this is the problem. As a potential leader in the financial industry, it is my duty to improve representation of women. And another part of the data shows that financial services need more women to embrace technology evolution. Before joining Rotman, I worked as data scientist in various industries as well as research analyst in a pension plan. I am aware of pain-points of traditional finance and modern technics solution to those problems.



And more importantly, representing a traditional underrepresented community
